[MUSIC] In this lecture,
you will study basics of Business GIS, which are Proximity Analysis and
Accessibility Analysis. For Business GIS, the very first
step is to figure out trade area, which is the area from which the store
draws the most of its customers. And within which market penetration
would be expected the most. For analyzing trade area,
proximity analysis can be used. And accessibility analysis would
be take one more step further to overcome limitations
of proximity analysis. And present a more comprehensive insight
of space associations of supply and demand. I've brought in the previous
example presented in the very first lecture of this course,
while we discussed special data science The question was,
what is the revenue estimation of a new grocery store at the red arrow
located in Evanston, IL? There are two approaches
to answer the question. Causality approach and
data mining approach. For causality approach, we may need to delineate trade
area in the very first place. Let us assume that the blue line
represents the trade area of a new grocery market. Actually, it's an example
of proximity analysis, then we should collect additional
information on potential customers, competing stores,
field surveys, transportation, real estate price, and
the new development and many others. Then we could come up with revenue
estimation of the new store. Proximity analysis is
by definition spatial analysis to determine
distance relationship generally finding the closest pair between a selected feature and other features. There are two type of proximity analysis. One is to start from demand side
the other one is from supply side. Find the closest stores from
all the customer locations, that's the approach from demand side. On the other hand,
delineating area coverage to which a given store has the minimum distance is
the approach from supply side, confusing? Let's take a look at real-world axample,
proximity to emergency rooms. The example is composed of district
centers as customers locations, and locations of general hospitals
with emergency rooms in Seoul Korea. Now, we can apply proximity analysis from
demand side, which is customer's location. Basically, potential
patient's locations and which is aggregated to
the district centers. From each district center
finding the closest general hospital with ER(Emergency Room) using
simple geoprocessing tools. And the pairs are the result
of the proximity analysis. Now you are looking at an example of
proximity analysis for the entire Seoul. Pairing district center of black dot and
the closest hospital with emergency room is the outcome of proximity
analysis from demand side. One more thing should be noted that
Euclidean distance was used for finding closest hospital
from district center. However, there's a more realistic
option using network distance, which can reflect
the transportation condition. With respect to same dataset, Thiessen polygons are produced
from locations of emergency rooms. Thiessen polygon is also known as Voronoi
diagram which is partitioning of plane with input points into  polygons, such that
each polygon contains exactly one point. And any location in a given
polygon is closer to its associated point than any other. So in the example, Thiessen
polygon is the approximate area or area of influence from each general
hospital which with emergency rooms. Which is an outcome,
a proximity analysis from supply side. Now, you're looking at Thiessen
polygons with respect to general hospitals with ER in Seoul,
Korea as a result of proximity analysis. How do you like the results? Either analysis from supply side or
from demand side. Generally speaking, proximity
analysis is somewhat rudimentary and considers only distance or
travelling time in defining trade area. However, we should consider
other attraction factors and comprehensive analysis of both supply and demand
together, for more practical business analysis. For that,
the problems of proximity analysis could also be resolved by
accessibility analysis. Accessibility is by definition,
relative ease at which a service can be reached
from given locations. Accessibility can be determined
by the distribution of supply and demand and how they are related in space. So it is a classical example of
spatial data science problem. Which is applicable to
trade area analysis and resource distribution planning and so on. Supply-demand ratio is the simplest
method for accessibility analysis. Which computes supply to
demand ratio in an area, usually with respect to
administrative district. However, the method have
two serious shortcomings. First, it cannot review any
variation within the areas. When the area is very large,
it cannot reflect the reality. Second, it assumes no
activity over the boundary. Demand is supported by supply only
within areas which is far from realistic. You're looking at ER capacity of
hospital to population ratio with respect to administrative district of Seoul,
as an example of supply to demand ratio. The limitations of supply-demand
ratio can be resolved by Floating Catchment Analysis(FCA). Instead of given areas, FCA defines a catchment
area around each locations. And compute supply to demand ratio
with respect to catchment area. The catchment area will float
from one location to another. The boundary of catchment area can
be delineated with the radius, travel distance or travel time. The figures illustrate examples
of catchment area with radius and travel time, and
two different outcome of R1 and R2. FCA method is much more improved
over simple supply to demand ratio. However, it also has two logical problems. First, the distance between a supply and a demand within a catchment could
be farther than a given threshold. Second, our supply center could be
included in a multiple catchment. Which means that availability
over supply centers, for example,
ER capacity of hospital should be somehow discounted
by the competition for it's service of surrounding demands. So for that 2-Step
Floating Catchment Analysis was developed in order to overcome
the problems of simple FCA. The solution requires two steps. First, applying supply to
demand ratio in the catchment defined by each supplies
center j which produce Rj. Second, find and sum all the js in
the catchment of demand location i. Which produce AiF in the equation, which is accessibility
of a demand location i Certainly a large value of AiF
represents a better accessibility. For your understanding,
I brought in an example. In the brown catchment of S2,
two district centers, D1 and D2 of black dot are included. For ER capacity of S2
is divided by the population of the two districts, the result is R2. Likewise we can apply the same computation
to S1 with green catchment and S2 with blue catchment. For each supply center, now we have
supply to demand ratio, R1, R2, R3. For the second step, in a new
a catchment in in green color around D1. Demand center,
all the R values are added up and it is A1F, which is the accessibility
of D1 from 2-step FCA. [SOUND] The accessibility can be also formulated by gravity model, which mimic gravitational
interaction between two places. Like FCA, it also has two versions,
single step or two steps. The single step also known as
potential model is with respect to each demand at center i. The supplies from surrounding supply
location j discounted by the inverse of the distance. Here, we assume that
the beta is equals to 1. And the discounted supplies
are all added up, and Ai is the accessibility
of the demand center i. However, the potential
model does not account for the demand side just like
single step FCA method. So the potential model can be improved
by considering competition for supplies among demand
centers just 2-step FCA. The gravity-based index of accessibility
AIG formulates the effect in terms of Vj, which is demand potential of
supply location j. The demand from surrounding demand
locations are discounted by the inverse of the distance, the discounted demands
are all added up and you can get Vj. The Vj divided by discounted
supply in previous model, now you have gravity based
index of accessability, AIG. Again, here's an example. We have to start to compute
competition for supplies. So with respect to S1, S2, S3,
demand potential V can be computed. For example,
S2 has two competing demand center, D1, D2 and the distance of 0.3 kilometer and
1.9 kilometer. So V2 can be computed by adding
up the two discounted demands, likewise we compute V1 and V3. Then the demand potential divide each
discounter supply, the terms added up. And now you can get a gravity-based
index of accessibility of demand center D1 in
the equation which is 0.002983. [SOUND] The two major approaches of
accessibility are 2-step FCA and gravity-based index of accessibility. As you recognize, there are very
similar to each other in computation. In reality, 2-step FCA ia a special
case of the gravity-based method. The distance factors
namely dij to minus beta, dkj to minus beta are only difference in
the two equations, in the two models. So if the distance factor are removed
from gravity model, they become identical. The two methods are applied to the test
dataset of ER capacity of general hospitals and
population of district in Seoul, Korea. In order to compute the accessibility
of the ER for each district, For 2-step FCA five minutes
travel distance were applied. And for gravity based approach,
beta was set to 0.8. You are looking at
accessibilty map produced by two methods. Then now your question should be
which is better than the other? Actually it is a tough question, but generally 2-step FCA is
preferred in most applications. Even though gravity-based
index of accessibility is theoretically more
sound than 2-step FCA. However first of all,
gravity-based approach has a tendency to inflate accessibilty
in poorly-accessed area and it generally requires large computation. Also, another problem is
the distance friction factor, here the beta is the governing factor
of gravity based approach but it is extremely difficult to determine
the value in an appropriate manner. In this lecture, you studied proximity
analysis and accessibility analysis. The one includes consumer-based
analysis and store-based analysis, which are related to
the delineation of trade area. The other includes supply to demand ratio, as the simplest version of
accessibility analysis, 2-step FCA and gravity-based index of accessibility
were introduced as more advanced and comprehensive method for
accessibility analysis. This is the end of this lecture. It might be somewhat complicated, but this lecture will be successful
if you could see the value and potential of spacial data science,
particularly for business applications. Bye now, and
hopefully see you all in the next lecture.